Walk them back.
Let's now implement this bar where we actually get the profile from the back end.
Now this should be fairly simple to do.
All we really have to do is to say as long as we have the data with the ID we can do a now or fetch
call to our AM point except this endpoint now will be the profile endpoint and this profile endpoint
is going to receive the idea of the user that we just got.
So that is data that ID in our case will be.
Our sample User A which is that idea of one and once again we need to give it second parameters that
is going to have I'm just going to copy whatever we had up ahead.
It's going to be a GET request.
The tokin is going to be the token that we've have already from here and with the profile requests if
all goes well well we have to do our response Jaison
and then we'll get the actual
And this user information as long as their gut End Point is working.
We can do a bit of a check.
Let's just say user and user e-mail for now
if that checks out then just do our load user function because remember our load user function whereas
it just receives data from here so we'll say load user data and we also want to call the on route change
to go home.
Just like we have in the seinen component.
So just copy that.
We're going to call on route change to go home as well.
Now let's save go back to our app make sure that none of our tokens are there.
All right.
Everything is clear and I'm going to sign in with a at a dot.com and other a sign and I still get on
to find him.
Let's check this out.
Well silly me this shouldn't be data this should be user.
So let's say that again go back.
Let's make sure that we remove the tokens and we get our error here because well this isn't a prop on
route change is actually a method.
I believe that we have over here on the app component.
So let's just remove the props hit save let's go back again.
No session storage a tradeoff a seinen.
And I still get undefined if we go back.
Let's see where we actually get from the user.
And so I'm trying to console the log
user groups not that user.
Let's save
and.
All right.
So this is the user that we're getting.
And all of a sudden it's working.
I might have had to refresh.
OK.
So I am getting ID name e-mail entries.
I am getting this information as I expected it.
It's being loaded as you can see here.
Let's just sign out again and make sure that everything is working.
Want to refresh again because we haven't implemented a sign out function.
Our token still here.
So as soon as I refresh I'm logged in I'm going to try this one more time let's clear this sign out.
A dot com so that we get our token.
Once we get the token.
All right so there's a bit of logic here.
As soon as I refresh I get my user profile.
But as soon as I sign in I don't get my user profile and that should trigger something.
Right.
Because our app is handling this which is working nicely.
However we're not handling the seinen correctly because now the load user and point this data only receives
their user ID.
And here we can do a little bit of a trick because of how re-act works.
Remember every time we update state react Rieu renders.
So in here we're just sending the data object that has user ID and a success and the token but load
user right now if we go to load user has a few different things and there's so many ways that you can
do this.
You might want to change this load user function
so in here there's a few ways that you can actually do this.
You can already see here that this is getting a little bit long and messy and we might want to extrapolate
it into or extract it into separate functions but for brevity sake and just to keep things moving along
I'm going to just use the same get request that we use here to get that user profile.
So after we've received the user id I'm going to save the auth token.
And before I load the user and change the route change I'm going to remove that.
I'm going to copy and paste this.
That allows us to remove the little statements over here and we don't need to check for the if statement
anymore.
There you go.
We're saving the auto can and then we're doing a fast call to get profile and once we get that back
we are going to then use the user name to load user and change the route.
Let's save and we have a bit of an error here because on line 42 tokens should be data Daut token.
So data dot token.
All right.
Let's save here.
Go back and I'm going to open up developer Pro-Tools Network tab or application tab.
Make sure that we clear our storage.
I'm going to refresh which makes us get into the site en route because we don't have a token sign in
with our good friend a
word.
We have a bit of a never bad request.
Ere getting user.
And that's because data dot I.D. should be data user ID.
Again this is another great example of why you might want to have a single function between app and
seinen that does the same thing and you can use that both in both ways.
And instead of having these cases and there's let's give that a go again.
Let's delete our token
refresh which makes us sign out and give this another go.
All right we get the token.
But this lodes user is not a function because.
This should be crop's.
So a few little adjustments here that we need to make.
All right.
One last time.
This is bound to work.
But this is life of a developer just costly debugging your code and look at that we're logged in with
everything.
Every time I refresh Now look at that I'm able to immediately grab my user so I don't have to keep signing
in.
That's very very nice.
But if I ever remove my token or my token gets expired or revoked and I have to refresh.
Sorry boss.
You cannot say you not access that information.
How cool is that.
Let's just go over the code a little bit to make sure we're clear.
An apt Yes on component did mount.
We're simply checking for a token if there is a token.
We're just going to have for the sign in route to get our ID from our database.
Once we have that ID we have access to request the profile ID and then we get our user and we can load
our user and change our route to home in the signing case where we don't have the session or we don't
have the token.
In that case we need to sign in with our email and password get our token and our ID we saved the token
and then finally we can get the profile that we have now doing all of this was nice but there's still
one issue.
One last thing we need to do that is wouldn't it be nice if for all these endpoints that we really really
care about to have.
Well we mentioned before a middleware that before the request gets into perhaps handle register hand-job
profile get a handle profile update.
We have some sort of a middleware that says you need to require that simply checks for authorization
Hatter and the token if the user has it then you can go on and proceed and update your profile.
Otherwise just skip that entire process.
That entire logic you're getting kicked out.
So in the next video we're going to finish everything and implement that see in the next one.
Bobby.